News From the Chair]
Dear Alumni, Colleagues and Friends,
Greetings from the Department of Physics and Astronomy. As you will see from this newsletter, it has been a good year for our department.
Our program is as strong as ever, with 106 undergraduate majors and 63 graduate students enrolled in Fall 2025. The increased graduate enrollment, being above 60 for the last two years, is driven by increased grant funding and the recruiting of new faculty over the last three years. The department has developed many new course offerings, ranging from Astrobiology to Applied Machine Learning in Physics, and we have a new initiative to incorporate computer-based exploration throughout the curriculum. Introduction to Materials Science was offered for the first time as the
inaugural course for the new Materials Science and Engineering Institute, in which the Physics and Astronomy department is a major partner.
The department established a new mentoring program where every undergraduate major meets with a faculty member each semester to promote their strong engagement with our program; it includes discussions about society memberships. research internships. physics careers and career paths. A new study
room was opened this year where our undergraduate majors can study. socialize, and receive tutoring in any
of their courses from graduate teaching assistant" who arc available in the afternoons. The department has many student organi1..ations that arc very active the Physics and Astronomy Graduate Student Association (PAGSA), the Society of Physics Students (SPS). MU Student Astronomical Society (MUSAS), and Missouri Women in Physics and Astronomy (MoWiPA) you can read about their activities in this
newsletter.
Also in this newsletter you will s1."C the many important research achievements of our fal.'ulty and students. Our faculty hnvc n.-ccivcd significant new rcscan:h funding and external n.-cognition for their re.search
:11.-complishmcnts. Additionally. two of our faculty were pn)motcd this year. Dr. Dt.--epak Singh was promoted to Prl)fc.:-sor. Dr. Silvia Bompadre. who serves both as the As.•,odatc Department Chair and the Director of
t lndergniduatc Studies. was promoted to Teaching
rn,t  r.
A0cr 40 ) e.m. m the Ph -sics Machine Shop. Rod Schlotzhauer retired in March. The shop has a long history of research
in. trumcnt development for the department. the research reactor.
Recipients a/ Graduate School and Graduate Professional Council Awards: Teja Teppo/a• the AAAS Case Warlcshap Award, Professor Suchi Guha • the Gold 0,a/k Award, Vicki Kuhn the Excellence in Research Award.
the ·ampus, 3nd national research institutions. Rod was the shop supervisor, and we thank him for his cx '('llent k den-hip.
This w.u \\etod our inaugwal Dorina Kosztin Memorial Endowment Award to undergraduate
Jul Bka$S 3nd graduate students. Dallar Babaiao and Creighton Lisowski. The award wa<; established
,n f,'O.i n "' of Prof. Dorina Koszrin who was an outstanding and beloved faculty member for over
"'fflt\ ,<".an-. l the tof Dr. K.oszrin"s broad cootributioos to the department, the award recogni7.(, the
""for theirin all areas of research, teaching/mentoring, and
Physics and AstronomyUniversity of Missouri .Fall 20250111111 111quc,Physics and AstronomyUniversity of Missouri .Fall 20250111111 111quc,- --
Physics and Astronomy
University of Missouri .
Fall 2025
0111111 111quc
,
Physics and Astronomy
University of Missouri .
Fall 2025
0111111 111quc
,
m Cd,:gitcl AnsmdSama1
l!J ---
bbInaunural Dorina Kosztin Men1orial
b
b
Endown1ent & Awards
l'hl' nl,rina Kl,s,tin f\kml,rial Fmil,\\'llll'nt was l'Stahlishl'ti in l'arly O S in ti.md tnl'llll'rY l,f ('umtl,n- Distin!!uishl'ti Tl':tdtin!!
P1,,t1..'SSl,r Dl,rina Kl, /tin. whl, was an l,;1tst:mding and h llWl'd
ll'ad1a in thl' Dcpartml'tlt l,f Physics and :\stm1wmy. 1-\,r lWl'r t\\'l'llt.\' .Yl'ars. Dr. KM1tin's ,,·isdl,m. kindness. !!Uidanl·e. and llll'lltl,ring. tx,th in and l,ut l,f the dassn.x,m. impal'fl'ti 1..'l'Untkss stulknts. lt is this spirit of thl' l..'l,mpkte pl'n-l,n th:u guidl's thl' tlm.'l' Dl,rina Kl,s.rtin t\kml,rial :\wards tDKM:\s). pn.widl'ti yearly hy thl' endowml'nt. The award l..'atcg1..,ries an: as fi.'lll,ws:
1. Thl' nKf\I:\  for Ph,.·si1..·s and :\stn.,nl,mY.
l P& :\)
llndcrgmduatc Students: One l,r nll,n: annual sl..'hl,l:u hip awanis shall hl' giwn tl, undcrgmduatc stud ·nts "hl, an: in the final year l,f their
dcgn and C'\1..'d in 1,, l' l,f thl· thn an- 1s l,f n'Sl':m·h.
tcad1ing tnl'nh,rinc. and l,r Sl'f\ 11..-l'
Pn.,ft•s.st.)r Oorina ltosztin
- The 01\.M \ ti.,r P& \ l1radu.1h.' Stth.knh On"· ,,r nH,n' annual srhl,larship awards shall Ix- gi, l'n h' graduat1,.t'u1..kn1' "h,, .m· m thl' linal l',tr ,,f thl'ir dq!rt'l' and rxcd in all thn'\.' an·as l,f n,1..·.m·h. 11.· 1.·hm • m1.·nhmn .• md ,,r Sl'f\ il..'l'.
3. Tht.' l mn , l\.l,s.rtm \k   '  I,., "".'"·'rJ (lnc ,,r nmn· annual awards shall 0(:
gi, 1..'n h' ,,utstandmg t.Ku t, . ·   ,. ' , I 1 1.· l ,,lk l· of \rts and Sril'lll'C for
1..,utstandmg .md 1.'\1.·mrl. n",.... ' 1 ,..
This lll Hl ur-;11 1,.' lr. n·,:1r11.·nh'' t \.0  )t-._ \'  \," "
lblt'S.. . Uh.I r.1du u1.t·lh.k '" 1)2II r H h i n
:-1.'1..Yll.'\i.l l'\.•rann11.·1•t l , "., "
J1r:,,m.1. pn..... n·,,•t..· .. · , .. "'' .. ,, ,
'" ".ind or thl· l 111,1:r..i1,.
•raduah: ,ru,knt .Juli11111rn ( rl'iJ!hlon I i,mHld I hl'\ \\l'rl'
I 1.. <. harr I h1..· I>!\ \f \,. rnns1s1111g nf.1
'..t11 th\.' re 1p1cn1 1111 \f,1, '>. during the­
.·.
J ,•-.1.·..,,·.·. ll ..--, ..••l\ ..·!"."
I r.."C rl"l'rp1cn11h · DK \f \ al,o ha a
· ..II and "oded" 1th h..r
 
New Alu1nni Endowments
llmrnld I.. nnd Lona Lewis Packwood Endowed Assistant Profe11or of Applied Physics
Af. alumnus and one of the co-founders of our Physics Leaders group, Don Packwood has generously contributed both his time and resources to our Department of Physics and Astronomy. His contributions are now able to endow a new position for assistant professor. The university has approved a search for this new position which will soon be underway. Don also funds an annual undergraduate student scholarship: the "Donald L. and Lona Lewis
Packwood Endowed
Undergraduate Scholarship Fund in Physics".
Don Packwood with his late wife Leona in Pedernal, NW New Mexico in 2009
Don received his PhD from our department in 1971 and followed that with a career at several companies, most of it at Hewlett Packard Corporation. He received an MU­ A&S Distinguished Alumnus Award in 2004, and a Distinguished Alumni Award from our department in 2020.
Ronald J. Boain and Catherine J. Boain Endowed PhD Dissertation Award in Physics
and the
Ronald J. Boain and Catherine J. Boain Endowed Student Travel Fund
Through the generosity of alumnus Ronald J. Boain the Department of Physics and Astronomy has been presenting an annual cash award for the top PhD dissertations and awarding funds to our students to enable them to attend conferences and other trave. These funds, originally set up in 2019, are now endowed in perpetuity and will benefit our students far into the future.
Additionally, Ron and Catherine established the Ronald J. Boain and Catherine J. Rangel Boain Endowment fund supporting travel to professional conferences and research sites for our
graduate students.
Catherine and Ronald
BoainRon had a long and varied successful career in aerospace at TRW, Martin Marietta Aerospace, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Ron was the 2024 recipient of the D partment of Physics & Astronomy Distinguished Alumni Award and is one of our Physics Leaders.
3
Ic!)g_;., Arts and Science
_[L-
C_a_mpus and Community Outreach]
l\larl·h 1◄,air a11d l◄:xpo
Our lkpartnwnt and s111dt·nts pnrtidpnlcd in the March 8, 202\
(\,lumbia y,,1mg Srit·11tisl Fnir and Expo, an annual outreach
event organized by the Division of Research, Innovation, and Impact of the MU provost's office. The turnout of this event is usually
400-500. Our department has had a significant presence at this event for the past three years. This year we had four tables of displays and hands-on activities with a team of 10 student volunteers. The department also hosted an open house on April 25.
Physics & Astronomy Table
Laws Observatory
Laws Observatory on top of the Physics Building continues to be used for outreach and education on a weekly basis. Wednesday night viewing for the public is open (weather permitting) all year except during the coldest months and during a mid-summer break.
There are many other activities for special events. The observatory often provides live streaming on Facebook at the observatory and
off-campus locations. The observatory is run by student volunteers
and by Valentine Germann and Randall Durk of the Central Missouri Astronomical Association.
:.. ,·,...l"': ••
Val Germann was interviewed for the
COMO Magazine Feb 12, 2025 issue regarding astronomy in Columbia: https://comomag.com/2025/02/1
Viewing sunspots at Logboat
Brewery in August
-'
rr..·j
r
r
July 9 photo from the roof
2/reaching-for-the-stars­
stargazing-in-columbia-mo/
For news and information follow Laws Observatory on Facebook and the observatory webpage: https://physics.missouri.edu/laws-
observatory.Wednesday nights at Laws Observatory
efef.;;;::::::::::::::===========  {!J £ 11_:,g;Arts and Science
ef
ef
Science & Eng Collaborative Research at MU
Matl•rials amd FnJ,?lllt't'rlnJ.t lnsllluk
MSFl. 11.'mllkd in 202 I. is w-lcd hy Matt Maschmann, professor of mcth,tnical and ac1,,sp:Kl' l'n inl'l'ring. and Carlos Wexler, professor of physics in the College ,,f Art. and
kil'lll'l'. Thl' institute fosters collaboration in existing and new areas such as biomaterial l'llcrgy. materials. quantum materials and materials at extremes. MSEf's 2,000-square-fo,; r,.lall'rials Characterization Facility is available for use and includes a variety of microfabrication and characterization devices including a Class I 00 clean room. In addition to Prof. Wexler, our department has many professors included in the core faculty
group: Guang Bian, Suchi Guba, Tom Heitmann, Gavin King, Pontus Laurell, Andrew Meng, Paul Miceli, Sashi Sitpathy, Deepak Singh, Pavio Sukhachov, and Ping Yu.
Affiliated faculty include loan Kosztin and Carsten Ulrich.
Source: https://msei.missouri.edu
Quantum Innovation Center (Mizzou-QIC)
Physics Asst. Professor Pontus Lauren is a member of the executive committee of the recently launched Quantum Innovation Center (Mizzou-QIC) connecting faculty, students, and industry partners interested in quantum computing. The center is a dynamic hub for quantum research, education, and innovation. In addition to Laurell, affiliated department faculty include Shi-Jie Chen, Carlos Wexler, and Xiaoqin Zou. The QIC accepts student research proposals for its summer internship program. Several students were funded for this summer's inaugural program, including Amarnath Chakraborty, one of our physics graduate students.Source: https://engineering.missouri.edu/quantum-innovation-center
(News From the Chair, cont.from page I)
The department is extremely grateful for several new endowments that were established this year - these will have an enormous impact on the Physics and Astronomy program. The Donald L. and Lona Lewis Packwood Endowed Assistant Professor of Applied Physics will support a new junior faculty member whose focus will be on physics applications. A faculty search commenced this fall with the intent to hire for Fall 2026.The Ronald J. Boain and Catherine J. Boain Endowed Student Travel Fund will assist our students in travelling to professional conferences and research sites.
The department has an enonnous appreciation of the generosity of our alumni who have contributed to scholarships and fellowships that play an essential role in supporting our students. This year the department awarded the John H. Letcher Graduate Student Scholarship for the first time and next year the Chandrasekhar Fellow will be presented to an outstanding graduate doctoral student in their last year. We are also grateful for our Physics Leaders alumni who contribute their time and energy to the department. Our annual Physics Leaders meeting was held October 3-4, 2025, where they engaged with the faculty and students. The department presente the Dis inguished Alumni Award to Dr: Paul Leath (PhD J 966) for his distinguished career and long-time ervice to the department. T e Physics Leaders
ppwill meet again during one of the first three weekends m October 2026- all alumm are welcome, so please watch your email for a final date and I hope to see you next year!
p
p
Wishing everyone the best for the new year,o-lf:
5
New Chandrasekhar Fellow
Through the generosity of Mccra and H. R. Chandrasekhar, the Department of Physics and Astrono 1y is gaining a new one-sem_ester fellowship -5 FTE) with an inaugural presentation next spnng semester. Tl e award e will ?e an outstandmg graduate student in their final year, who plans to defend theu PhD dissertation by May 2026. The outstanding student will be designated as a "Chandrasekhar Fellow". The department appreciates this generous support b Meera and Chandra, both professors emeriti of our department, in endowing this fellowship yd for their years of dedication to research, teaching, and mentoring.an
In the Future: Next Gen MURR
.-< ";:;\
!.,-umf
··....: ·•"
MPR
The University of Missouri plans to build a NextGen MURR (Next Generation Missouri University Research Reactor) over the next several years, a multi-billion-dollar initiative to accelerate the production of cancer-fighting
_.•!E'"_.J, ::a-.q11 radioisotopes. When completed it will be the
timost powerful university research reactor in the
U.S. The new 20-megawatt research reactor along with our existing reactor will serve as a
hub for nuclear medicine innovation. Currently our l 0MW reactor annually supplies 1.6 million patients with radioisotopes that treat or diagnose cancer. The new next-generation facility will be located at Discovery Ridge Research Park at Highway 63 and Discovery
Parkway in south Columbia.
Using state and federal funds, MU signed an agreement with the Korean Atomic Energy Research Institute (KAERI) in March for the initial design and licensing phase. News regarding the signing can be found at: https://www.ans.org/news/2025-04-16/article- 6939/mizzou-announces-contract-signing-for-nextgen-murr-project/
Importantly, there is a proposal for a National Neutron Scattering User Facility adjace_nt to Next-Gen MURR and KAERI's preconceptual design will include a Cold Source, Guide Tubes, and Guide Hall. This facility would serve a significant national need for more capacity in neutron scattering and it would be a transformative addition to our campus.
Sources: KOMU.com.Link to NextGen MURR: https://nextgenmurr.missouri.edu/
66=============== (ii  -'  and Science  ===============::::;:::
6
6
►
 A Stellar Hobby
nangzheng (Tom) Sun, an astrophysics graduate student working with Hao.,·ing y,,lll,
does more than pursue research in
astrophysics. He is also a skilled astrophotographer capturing high resolution images of deep sky objects.
Tom combines hours of exposure time at various locations, including Finger Lakes State Park (Bortle of 5), extremely dark skies in New Mexico (Bordie of 1), and even our building roof (Bortle of 7) to create these amazing deep sky images
Pillars of Creation (Messier 16). Total obseNingtime:
17.42 hours. Photo by Bangzheng (Tom) Sun
Stephens Quintet, NGC 7331, & Supernova SN2025. Total obseNing time 7.17 hours. Photo by Bangzheng (Tom) Sun
Tom states that his telescope is also JWST: "Just a Weak & Small Telescope", but his results are certainly impressive. The picture on the lower left comer shows this "JWST" running an imaging session with the beautiful constellation of Orion rising on the background.
The Bortle Scale ranges from Class 1 (darkest sky available) to Class 9 (inner city skies)
The Shark Nebula. Photo by Bangzheng (Tom) Sun
''.JWST" running an imaging session for the constellation Orion
:::======= m' and Science7
-
Faculty News & Recognition
Curators' Distinguished Professor Shi-Jie
Silvia Bompadre was promoted to Teaching Professor. Prof.
Bompadre is also the
Associate Department Chair
and Director of
Undergraduate Studies.
apolipoprotein B100 from human low-density lipoprotein"
was published in Nature:
https:llwww.nature.com/articles/s41586-024- 08467-w.
Their article "The structure of bad cholesterol comes into focus" was also published in Nature:
https:/lwww.nature.com/articles/d41586-024- 04210-7
Professor Suchi Guba
Chen received a grant for $2,609,232 from the NIH to study ''New methods for computational modeling of RNA
structures". Prof. Shi-Jie Chen's lab was ranked #1 in the CASP competition for RNA structure prediction. He is also cited and quoted in a recent Nature (March 24,
2025) about the competition and the new focus on RNA structures.
Asst. Professor Keith Cassidy was one of several MU researchers studying the structure of a protein that could lead to more targeted heart disease treatments. Their work "A Protein at the heart of heart disease"
was highlighted in Show Me Mizzou:
Imps:.showme.missouri.edu/2025/a-protein­ at-the-hearr-of-heart-diseasel.
Researchers Zachary Berndsen and Keith Cassidy were recruited to Mizzou because of
their ow ledge of cryo-electron microscopy, atechnique that uses electrons to detennine
the D structure of biological molecules.
Thetr recent paper, "The structure of
was awarded the Gold Chalk Award in 2025 by the Graduate Professional Council for significant contribution to graduate education. She and her research group have been very active working in
==areas of neuromorphic organic devices and ultrafast optical spectroscopy. She gave several invited international presentations including the Nanoseries Conference in Valencia, Spain, Electronic Structure Theory and Experimental Realization in UT Madras, and the International Materials Research Congress in Cancun. Graduate student, Dallar Babaian (co-advised by Prof. Ping Yu), defended her PhD dissertation in August 2025 and has recently joined Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory as a postdoctoral scholar.
=
=
Suehi Guha with students Randy Burns and Datta, Babaian
8
ijJ C\.o--ll-e.g1e1:1<.J.i Art and Scima:
l\;md\ Hurns was awarded the 2024 Ron
Hl,ain and Catherine Rangel-Bonin Dissertation Award. Arash Ghobadi presented his work on neuromorphic organic transistors at the 2025 spring meeting of the MRS (Materials Research Society). Arash, Dallar, Randy, and
undergraduate students Evan Restuccia and Thomas Kallaos have authored/co-authored several publications.
Professors Suchi Guba and Gavin King were featured in a Show Me Mizzou article on their collaborative research harnessing perovskites) for energy innovation. https://showme.missouri.edu/2025/mizzou­ scientists-harness-the-power-of-layered­ crystals-for-energy-innovation/
,,Professor Gavin King's laboratory had an active year. They welcomed a new graduate student (Alankit Dey) and several undergraduate researchers (Kira Wilson, Oktavia
,
,
Jaszczynska).
The group published several high-profile papers including, most recently, in Nano Letters. In this NSF-funded work they employed their newly refurbished Ice Lithography instrument and developed a novel use of frozen ethanol vapor for electron beam lithography on biological material. In particular, they demonstrated the fabrication of solid graphite-like material directly on biological membranes, portending future applications such as liYing solar cells. A patent disclosure has been filed to facilitate future commercialization of the technology.
r,
1EtOH IceI
II.......,.,.IP•Jrple MembraneII.......,.,.IP•Jrple Membrane
I
I
.......,.,.
I
P•Jrple Membrane
I
I
.......,.,.
I
P•Jrple Membrane
eabove cartoon shows the concept of usmg frozen ethanol (EtOH ice) as a sacrificial resist in an electron beam ( e­ beam) lithography process. Thee-beam
onverts t e frozen ethanol into a graphite­ hke matenal (ethanol based material
orange) that is solid at room tempera'ture.
Th strategy enables precise 3D printing on delicate biological membranes. Cartoon
source: from D. Chiaro et al., Nano Letters 2025.
Asst. Professor Pontus Lauren serves on the executive committee of MU's Quantum Innovation Center (Mizzou-QIC) connecting faculty, students, and
industry partners interested in quantum computing. The QIC, through its Internship program, funded several student projects over the summer, including Amarnath Chakraborty in physics.
Prof. Laurell gave an invited talk at the SCES2025 (Strongly Correlated Electron Systems) conference in Montreal, that was part of a special symposium session on Entanglement in SCES which was supported by a Faculty International Travel
Award from the College of Arts and Science.
9-
Asst Profrssor Maria Mills was the recipient of a National Institutes of Health (NIH) award funded at $350,000 annually for 5 years, a total of $1.7 million, for her research on the coordination of complex
dynamics by DNA topoisomerases and DNA repair processes. Prof. Mills' group uses a combination of force, torque, and fluorescence to understand how proteins remodel the structure of DNA.
Deepak Singh was promoted to Professor. Prof. Singh's research along with graduate student Pousali Ghosh on their important discovery of magnetism in NiSi is featured on the Department of Energy -
Basic Energy Sciences website: https:/lwww.energy.gov/sciencelbes/articles/surpri sing-discovery-magnetism-common-material­ microelectronics
and also featured in Show Me Mizzou last fall:
https://showme.missouri.edu/2024/revolutionizing
-electronics/
Singh (right) works with Mizzou graduote student Pousali Ghosh in Singh's lab.
Asst. Professor Charles Steinhardt's recent research offering a new theoryon star formation was recognized in a Show­ Me Miuou article in April:
https://showme.mis.wuri.edu/2()2.5,',m,·7,V,JU
researc.her-o·[·fers-new-theory-on-uni·ver.'IP.V-'ilrJr formatwn/
Curators' Distinguished Professor Carsten Ullrich has received a Fulbright Specialist
Program Award and will be on the Fulbright Specialist roster for three years (2024-2027). He will spend October 2025
at the In?ian Insti te of Technology (IlT)
Madras m Chenna1, where he will teacha graduate course on Introduction to Time­ D pendent Density-Functional Theory, and will pursue a research collaboration with
scientists at the Condensed Matter Theory and Computational Lab (CMTCL).
Professor Haojing Yan and his team have been working on a few projects in extragalactic astronomy that are leading to some interesting (and unexpected) results. In particular, he and one of
his graduate students, Bangzheng (Tom) Sun,
have published two significant papers using the data from the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST). One is on the early settlement of Milky Way-like spiral galaxies, and the other is on the discovery of candidate galaxies in the early universe that are unusually luminous. The latter has been publicized by Show Me Mizzou in August 2025 and received world-wide attention - it is in the top 5% of all research outputs scored by Altmetric. They have three more papers currently under review. https:l/showme.missouri.edu/2025/early­ galaxies-or-something-else-mizzou-scientists­ uncover-mysterious-objects-in-the-universe/
10
(!j College of Arts and Science
l-,,.tJ.._,
[ Our Graduates
Undergraduate Degrees
BS, Fall 2024
Dylan Bateman, <'ntphasis in A.tlrnnnmy
Matt Gardner, empha.ti.t in Astrnnnmy, Cum Laude
Brian lssleib
Ash Morrison, emphasis in Astronomy, Magna Cum Laude, Honors College Certificate
Kyle Renshaw, Summa Cum Laude Evan Restuccia, Summa Cum Laude Alec Williams, emphasis in Astronomy
BS, Spring 2025
Julianna Bayless, emphasis in Astronomy, Honors CollegeCertificate, Department Honors
Emma Burton, emphasis in Astronomy
Mason Crane
Carter Davidson, emphasis in Materials Science Patricia Denn, emphasis in Materials Science Donovan Flagg, emphasis in Astronomy
Ellen Gates, Emphasis in Astronomy, Magna Cum Laude, Honors College Certificate, Department Honors
Cy Jennings, Emphasis in Astronomy
Carter Woods, Magna Cum Laude
BS, Summer 2025
Vishvi Aurora
Graduate Degrees
PhD Graduates:
Fall 2024
Jared Williams, Advisor: Carsten Ullrich
Spring 2025 .. Charles Mentzer, Advis r: Atgen Lt Alec Martin, Advisor: Y1ch ng Gu?.
Vishal Jayswal, Advisor Sergei Kopeikin
Summer 2025
b Cook Advisor Guang Bian
Jaco 'd1' Advisor Giovanni Vignale
Departmental Hmitm requires .;> J.5 GPA '", physics courses. compfetum of 6 credit hours of research. and a publication or presentation (oral or posterJ.
A Certificate in General Honors from the MU Honors College requires students to complete 24 hours of courses for honors credit and maintain a 3.5 cumulative GPA.
To receive Latin honors from our College of Arts and Science requires at least 54 of the student's last 60 hours at MU and:
3.7-3.799 GPA for Cum
Laude
3.8-3.899 GPA for Magna
Cum Laude
3.9 - 4.0 GPA for Summa
Cum Laude
Ehsan Fan ,.G
. T ppala Advisor Y1chenguo TeJ lre dy defended, Fall 2025: .
. eaAdvisors Suchi Guha and Pmg Yu
Dallar Babat:Wh,h, Advisor Deepak Singh
PousaliG osAdvisor Giovanni Vignale
Amamath Chakraborty,
11
(iJ  $ and Science ===============::
Spring 2025 PhD Graduates
Professor Sergei Kopeikin, Vishal Jayswal, Charles Mentzer, Alec Martin, Professor YichengGuo
Where are our graduates?]
Dallar Babian
PhD,August 2025 Advisor:Sucbi Guba Postdoc, Lawrence Berkeley National Lab
Jacob Cook
PhD, summer 2025 Advisor: Guang Bian Postdoc, Oakridge National Lab
Ehsan Faridi PhD, summer 2025 Advisor: Giovanni Vignale
Lecturer, Savannah State U.
C'n Collegeof Am and S<:i.:occ
··'"'
12 =
l
Pousali Ghosh
PhD, August 2025 Advisor: Deepak Singh Postdoc, Howard University
Vishal Jayswal
PhD, spring 2025 Advisor: Sergei Kopeikin Instructor AP Physics, Lawrence HS, KS
Alec Martin
PhD, spring 2025 Advisor: Yicheng Guo Lecturer, Troy University
Charles Mentzer PhD, spring 2025 Advisor: Aigen Li Postdoctoral fellow
(National Tsing Hua Univ)
Jared Williams
PhD, fall 2025
Advisor: Carsten Ullrich Lecturer, Stephens College
103 students
6.8%6.8%8.7%9.7%
6.8%
6.8%
-Faculty
Other Teaching
-Postdocs/Staff Scientists Industry/Business
Other
32%
PhDPhysics, u. Missouri (2010-2025)
mm13
m
m
: ::::::::=========and Science
W,••1rd, s. Scholarships, & Rccogniti()n
Undergraduate Student Scholarships
P••I E. BIISVf' ( T,.,l d•ate Scholarship
Julianna Bayles M11th1eux Harper, Ashley Morrison
Sa,,a■el S. Laws Scholarship
Mathieux Harper
Donald L and Lona Lewis Packwood Endowed Vrulergrad,,ate Scholarship Fund in Physics Juliana Bayless
Melvin Y. Mora Undergraduate Scholarship Fund
Ashley Morrison
Clifford W. Tompson Scholarship in Physics
Visbvi Aurora, Carter Woods
Graduate Student Sch0 1a,, I
o... 1t• .o... 1t• .CCRo.,e Marie DL,hman Endowed S It ,_
o... 1t• .
o... 1t• .
C
C
Tapesh Gautam, Ara h Ghobad· (''P '" l'lt,111-
1, JOUrab Nandi '""
James L. and Dora D. Fergason Fund /o,
Physics:tlknte i,r
Ragheer Yeassin, Kristopher Luck, Briana Moma
Gunarathnalvo, Ashar,
Newell S. Gingrich Physics SchoiarJhip
Dilan Gamachchige, Indeewari KariyFunll
Bangzheng (Tom) Sun aweruma,
Newell S. Gingrich P ysic and Astronomy Endm,,,,trrt
Dayton SIIDpkins, Kisblay Singh
Eli Stuart Haynes and Nola Anderson Haynes Schoianlrip
Fund
Harold Diaz-Quiroz
Ernest W. Landen Fellowship in Physics
Shakeila Davis, Pavel Morales
These fellowships, scholarships, and awards are possible because of funds generously established and supported by our alumni and faculty.
These students were the recipients for the academic year 2024-2025 and summer 2025.
Some funds do not have scholarships awarded every year.
B. H. Rose Endowment Fund
Bipin Bhattarai
Guy Schupp Scholarship Fund
Connor Nance
Armstrong Physics Endowment
Stephen Klue, Gourab Nandi
Letcher Graduate Student Scholarship
Jenna Bologa, Dominic Dalba, Bradley Faison
·O. M. Stewart Scholarshipbaxntlled
Abbi Abhijeet, Bibek Tiwari, Abeeb Ajibad_e, rvt;althrOP• Abousetit, Ishan Pathak, Dallar Babaian, illo J\Illafllath . David Beckwitt, Moudip Nandi, DeepeshSi d , pala, Mafl
Chakraborty, Ehsan Faridi, Pousali Ghosh, TeJa : zobfS,
''Tsumuraya Bo Yang Mitch Vaninger, fatellleDoeriJlg,
'
'
'.Gerog Akansha Negi' Prativa Sharma' Enn Brady, Horne
Aparna Joshi, Diya Bansal, John
Department Graduate Student Award,
Ron Boai and Catherine RanRel-Boain Di.,.'iertation Awardt (/a/12024)
andy Bums (first place), Ryan Smith (second place)
Dorina Kosztin Memorial Award Dallar Babaian, Creighton Lisowski Julianna Bayless (undergrad)
Harry E. Hammond Teaching Assistant Award
Mohamed Abousetit, Marek Spader, Stephen Klue
Ron Boain and Catherine Rangel-Boain Travel Award
Abeeb Ajibade, Amamath Chakraborty, Anthony Dorhauer, Arash Ghobadi, Avinash Sah, Clayton Connor
Carl and Brynn Anderson Travel Award
Creighton Lisowski, Dallar Babian, Deepesh Sigdel, Dillon Balthrop, Jacob Cook, Jenna Bolog Sadie Nickles, Stephen Klue, Tapesh Gautam, Mari Tsumuraya, Pousali Ghosh
Spotlight on our Scholarship Funds
This is the first year that student awards were given from the Letcher Graduate Student Scholarship Fund. John H. Letcher III. graduated with a PhD in Physics from our department in 1963, He worked for McDonald Douglas, Monsanto, and other companies in industry, and was later was a professor of computer science at the University of Tulsa. Dr. Letcher passed away in 2023. We appreciate that he generously included our department in his legacy planning, benefitting our students far into the future.
Overall size of Physics and Astronomy graduate program in Fall 2025:
63 students
All students are fully financially supported
-Astra
-Biophysics
-CMP
First Year/undecided
14.3%15.9%
23.8%
::::::::::========mand Science ==========l=S====
External Student Awards
Vicki Kuhn receives award from Jessica Osaze, past president of GPC
Graduate student Vicki Kuhn received the 2025 MU Graduate Professional Council Excellence in Research Award. This award honors a graduate or professional student who has demonstrated a sound understanding of their field of study and has made contributions to the field through their research. Vicki's advisor is Yicheng Guo.
Graduate student Gourab Nandi received the American Astronomical Society FAMOUS (Funds for Astronomical Meetings: Outreach to Underrepresented Scientists) Travel Grant which supported his travel to 246th American Astronomical Society Meeting in Anchorage, Alaska. He also received the Chambliss Astronomy Achievement Student Award-Honorable Mention, for his poster presentation at the meeting recognizing exceptional student research.
Graduate student Amarnath Chakraborty was accepted with the Quantum Innovation Center by IBM (Mizzou-QIC) for its competitive inaugural summer internship program. Mizzou-QIC is a hub for quantum research, education, and innovation at MU and across the MU System. Amamath was accepted to present at a Quantum Developer Conference hosted by IBM. Amamath 's advisor is Givanni Vignale.
Graduate Student Teja Teppala was selected in March as one of the recipients of the Mizzou 18 award. This award is dedicated to honoring I8 University of Missouri graduate and professional students in the last year of their degree eligibility, chosen for their research. collaboration with faculty and staff, and their demonstrated leadership with undergraduate students. Teja was also selected to represent Mizzou Graduate School at the 2025 Catalyzing Advocacy in Science and Engineering (CASE) Workshop held by the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) in April. Teja's ad,isor is Yicheng Guo.
Senior physics major DonaYan Flagg receive an award at the Show Me Research week April 2025 for "Measuring the pitch angle of distant galaxies... Donovan is mentored by Yicheng Guo.
16
S'·\ntOIpAd. o· ...S'·\ntOIpAd. o· .... . hysics major Ellie Gates received the University of
S'·\ntOIpAd. o· ...
S'·\ntOIpAd. o· ...
,A ssou..ll,A ssou..llri Award forca emtc1sttnction m 2025. This award
,A ssou..ll
,A ssou..ll
111
vizes extraordmary mte ectual curiosity, seeking knowledge
recog the classroom, sharing that knowledge with public
ien ,.h y·hien ,.h y·habueYd?n ces and contributing to the academic atmosphere at the
ien ,.h y·h
ien ,.h y·h
11un. vers1·ty· Ellie works wit1c eng Guo.
1
1
C -Ou-r New Grad-uate Students-
 
Matthew Bruenning (Missouri State U)
Xinjlun Chen (UC Stanta Cruz)
Hyrum Harlow (Missouri State U.)
LichunJi (Columbia U., NY)
RongHao Luo
n:.Barishat.Bangladesh)n:.Barishat.Bangladesh)(Southern U of Science & Technology, China)
n:.Barishat.Bangladesh)
n:.Barishat.Bangladesh)
F ahmida Rahman
Griffin Nettelhorst
(U. of Illinois, Urbana)
Leonardo Ramos (Lewis U., IL)
(iJandScience
Jakob Perivolotis (Arizona State U.)
Henri Reno
(Knox College, IL)
17
Student Organizations
This year, the Physics and Astronomy Graduate Student Association (PAGSA) has continued t'1 bring students together through a variety of fun and community-building events. In February, members gathered for a cozy movie night featuring The Imitation Game, a film that resonated with both the scientific and social sides of graduate life. March was dedicated to service, as the group organized a library cleanup and reorganization project, helping maintain a welcoming and useful space for everyone in the department. Spring wrapped up with an exciting trivia night in April and a relaxing afternoon of disc golf followed by a department-wide picnic in May, giving students a chance to enjoy the outdoors and some friendly competition.
The fall semester kicked off in August with a welcome picnic to greet new and returning students, an event that set a warm and inclusive tone for the year. In September, PAGSA hosted a game night where members could unwind, share laughs,
and build connections outside of the lab and classroom. Alongside these monthly activities, the group also maintains regular traditions such as the monthly association meeting, where graduate students discuss upcoming plans and share ideas, and TAP Hour, a recurring event where students give short talks on their research or topics of interest. Together, these events foster both academic engagement and community among physics and astronomy graduate students.
News contributed by Dayton Simpkins, PAGSA
presidentHandmade pinata at spring picnic
Library cleanup
Spring picnic
Scan this QR code to Follow PAGSA on Facebook and stay up to date.
1818===============m. Arts and Science
18
18
MOWiPA (Mizzou Women in Physics and Astronomy) enjoyed another active year! We continue in our aim to represent, support, and give voice to the women and gender minorities of the Mizzou Physics and Astronomy department.
Our bimonthly meetings include various social and cultural events to help build community between our undergraduate students, graduate students, and faculty. We work to facilitate the academic pursuits of our members, and to provide a forum where concerns can be raised, and guidance can be sought after.
In the fall, we had many festive events, such as pumpkin painting, movie nights, and gingerbread house decorating. In the spring, we explored topics such as the history of women in astronomy as we practiced our presentation skills. We also had a handful of members attend the Conference for Undergraduate Women and Gender Minorities (CU*iP)!
This year we hope to continue our traditions and grow our membership!
Fall pumpkin painting
News contributed by MOWiPA president Brianna Montalvo.
Department women at the Leaders Meeting dinner in October
MU Student Astronomical Society
The Student Astronomical Society (SAS) is open to any Mizzou student interested in expanding their knowledge about the universe and all it encompasses. The SAS meets the second Wednesday of each month. They have monthly speakers and often work with the Central Missouri Astronomical Association for astronomy
educational events.
1919================= liJ, e!._,Ans and Science
19
19
)   I
The Society of Physics S1mkn1s
\SPS) had a busy year. After wrapping up the summer with homemade liquid nitrogen ice cream, we hosted a series of student-led presentations on current physics
topics. In November, we co-organized a Physics and Astronomy Scholars Conference with Mizzou Women in Physics and Astronomy (MOWiPA). Attendees had the opportunity to present research, learn about graduate school, and participate in programming workshops.
Over winter break, SPS traveled to Chicago to visit Fermilab. We had the opportunity to learn about high energy particle physics and the discovery of elementary particles like the tau neutrino. We also visited the Field Museum, the Shedd Aquarium, and the ice rink in Millenium Park.
Chicago trip, Millenium Park
During the Spring semester, SPS continued with research presentations, physics trivia, and more. At our largest meeting of the year, we worked together to build a cloud chamber.
Last Thursday, SPS held its first meeting of the new semester. We plan to build a new and improved cloud chamber, along with other projects in the coming year. We will visit another national laboratory over winter break.
News contributed by SPS President Harrison Davison.
Chicago Trip
2020=================I!)Arts and Science ================
20
20
Physics Leaders Fall MeetingPhysics Leaders Fall Meeting
Physics Leaders Fall Meeting
Physics Leaders Fall Meeting
?ur P ysics Leader alumni meetings are held annually. The Physics Leaders are always interested m adding new members, and any alumnus can attend the event.
Our fall meetings always include briefings from Department Chair, Prof. Paul Miceli, Director of Graduate Students Prof. Suchi Guha, and Director of Undergraduate Studies Prof. Silvia Bompadre. Our students provide updates on our student organizations. The Dean of A&S Cooper Drury drops by to talk about A&S topics and answer questions from the alumni. The department selects u to four undergraduate and four graduate students to make 15-minute research presentat10ns. As part of their giving back to the department, Physics Leaders evaluate and award monetary prizes to selected student presenters. A Friday evening event
with socializing and dinner is held where these student awards, faculty recognition awards, and a department Distinguished Alumni are announced and awarded.
This year the annual meeting was held on October 3-4, 2025. During the Friday morning meeting our department Distinguished Alumni Award was presented via Zoom to Paul Leath, PhD 1966, for his career achievements and longtime service to our department, including as one of the founders of the Physics Leaders group. His career in academia in condensed matter physics at Rutgers University included serving as
vice-provost, provost, and later as Chair of the Physics Department.
Paul Leath
==This year we had three of our research labs plus a rooftop solarscope available for tours. The labs included semi-conductor crystal growth, ice lithography and an ultra-fast laser. Posters that included astrophotography, x-ray diffraction, neutron scattering, and ice lithography were on display on the second floor.
=
=
Posters on display
1,1,G,,,zudenr Src·ph,m Klue explains the
1,
1,
1<I,rr-r.·2·--•',:.11s' ,.;, • t'lU" 10 leaders Philip
1F
rL"'•"=·1-,fcl • .i.nd Chuck Crowder
L
Pm-sics Leaders Ron Boain, Don Packwood,
Jim Seeser on the roof for solar viewing
(sunspots)
--21
-
-
[!] College of Arts and Science
l,_
1hc th,h ay 11 . p ulMiceli presented1'hl' l1'dl ". 1I. 1..,,, t·n nino dm. ner event wa·s held at n exIe:' cutive Center.p,partmcnt c ,1atr a..Kope1km.uang 1•and Maria Mills.latul .  Grecognition awards toSergei .B'an Wouter Mont lroo1_1,..Guang Bian and Sergei Kopekin received the faculty awards presented by Paul Miceli on behalf of the Physics Leader,.Zoompresentation of Boain Disse1tation Awards, Jacob Cook pictured.The Boain Dissertation awards were.. presented by Paul Miceli and Ron Boam via Zoom to Jacob Cook (first place, advisor Guang Bian), and Alec Martin (second place, advisor Yicheng Guo).Paul Miceli and Leaders President Vann1hc th,h ay 11 . p ulMiceli presented1'hl' l1'dl ". 1I. 1..,,, t·n nino dm. ner event wa·s held at n exIe:' cutive Center.p,partmcnt c ,1atr a..Kope1km.uang 1•and Maria Mills.latul .  Grecognition awards toSergei .B'an Wouter Mont lroo1_1,..Guang Bian and Sergei Kopekin received the faculty awards presented by Paul Miceli on behalf of the Physics Leader,.Zoompresentation of Boain Disse1tation Awards, Jacob Cook pictured.The Boain Dissertation awards were.. presented by Paul Miceli and Ron Boam via Zoom to Jacob Cook (first place, advisor Guang Bian), and Alec Martin (second place, advisor Yicheng Guo).Paul Miceli and Leaders President VannPriest presented awards to the students the leaders selected as the top presenters on Friday afternoon, a difficult job to choose among many outstanding presentations.
1hc th,h ay 11 . p ulMiceli presented
1'hl' l1'dl ". 1
I. 1..,,, t·n nino dm. ner event wa·s held at n exIe:' cutive Center.
p,partmcnt c ,1atr a.
.
Kope1km.uang 1•
and Maria Mills.
latul .  G
recognition awards toSergei .
B'an Wouter Mont lroo1_1,
..
Guang Bian and Sergei Kopekin received the faculty awards presented by Paul Miceli on behalf of the Physics Leader,.
Zoompresentation of Boain Disse1tation Awards, Jacob Cook pictured.
The Boain Dissertation awards were.. presented by Paul Miceli and Ron Boam via Zoom to Jacob Cook (first place, advisor Guang Bian), and Alec Martin (second place, advisor Yicheng Guo).
Paul Miceli and Leaders President Vann
1hc th,h ay 11 . p ulMiceli presented
1'hl' l1'dl ". 1
I. 1..,,, t·n nino dm. ner event wa·s held at n exIe:' cutive Center.
p,partmcnt c ,1atr a.
.
Kope1km.uang 1•
and Maria Mills.
latul .  G
recognition awards toSergei .
B'an Wouter Mont lroo1_1,
..
Guang Bian and Sergei Kopekin received the faculty awards presented by Paul Miceli on behalf of the Physics Leader,.
Zoompresentation of Boain Disse1tation Awards, Jacob Cook pictured.
The Boain Dissertation awards were.. presented by Paul Miceli and Ron Boam via Zoom to Jacob Cook (first place, advisor Guang Bian), and Alec Martin (second place, advisor Yicheng Guo).
Paul Miceli and Leaders President Vann
Vicki Kuhn and David Beckwitt receive first and second place awards, respectively, from Vann Pri·est and Pau1M'iceIi
Undergraduate awardees: First place Carter Meyerhoff, second place Zach Borowiak'd
Graduate awardees: first place Vicki Kuhn, second place tie to Sadie Nickles and Davi Beckwitt.
Saturday morning included a productive and extended leaders' discussion with Silvia Bompadre, Director of Undergraduate Students, and Suehi Guha, Director of Graduate Students.
Next year's meeting dates will be finalized later but will be one of the first three weekends in October.
en.flllgen.flllgFollowing the meeting the leaders, represented by leader's president Vann Priest composeda letter to the A&S Dean.The leaders commented on a stabledartm tand one that is w ll-
en.flllg
en.flllg
pos1.t1. 0ned t o grow.O ne comment was· "The universi·ty's • e• p 1:.•ce and eng10eed
.'VlSlOll 1or sc1en: rr TOR all
s•s•(Center for Energy Innovation, Material Science and Engm·•CtNextGen N1V1'"'·
s•
s•
the Nat·lonal NtrU. .eenngen er,
departmen.t,,
eu on cattenngser Fac1hty) will prov1·deamp1eopportum"ties for the
22
==========m Cu-o,"ll'eMgeiaoufoA,;rts and Scie=nce ===:::::= ;:;;.,,,
Physics leaders Ron Boain, Don Packwood, and Jim Seeser on the roof of the physics building for solar viewing
Department Retirement
Rod Schlotzhauer retired in February after 40 incredible years of service in the Physics Machine Shop. The department held a farewell luncheon on February 26 to thank Rod for everything he has done for MU Physics & Astronomy, Mizzou, and countless external customers all over the world. The Physics Machine Shop is a leader in the design and construction of instrumentation for physics research and has attained a worldwide reputation for the development of instrumentation
for neutron scattering.
======================(!J -Arts and Science23
"""'""'Ult,•r,uhlt11h1-«I ""'"'""' ti, th,n,'1"''1mMi' 111 f'h'""""' 11n,1 ,11tmnnm, 111 thr1 "'''°""' 111 M11111n11nDetl(lrtm{"n, nl M,v111ca. and -'11tronomy-'Mw,.ir Au,ldml nlumh1R M1 \ f,Ci: 11'Ml• -  ._i,;i,.: ·rnc;1 ma,1 umca,q,hvs11:K(W.mi1i11ouri.eduV. et- "m: r,hvs1ci..m1ssouri.eduI du,,.-,a Hoard;_md., <,odwmPau M1cch"""'""'Ult,•r,uhlt11h1-«I ""'"'""' ti, th,n,'1"''1mMi' 111 f'h'""""' 11n,1 ,11tmnnm, 111 thr1 "'''°""' 111 M11111n11nDetl(lrtm{"n, nl M,v111ca. and -'11tronomy-'Mw,.ir Au,ldml nlumh1R M1 \ f,Ci: 11'Ml• -  ._i,;i,.: ·rnc;1 ma,1 umca,q,hvs11:K(W.mi1i11ouri.eduV. et- "m: r,hvs1ci..m1ssouri.eduI du,,.-,a Hoard;_md., <,odwmPau M1cchI )ff' •,.« 1 fl". ,,. 1nr1 , 1trnn11mv
"""'""'Ult,•r,uhlt11h1-«I ""'"'""' ti, th,
n,'1"''1mMi' 111 f'h'""""' 11n,1 ,11tmnnm, 111 thr
1 "'''°""' 111 M11111n11n
Detl(lrtm{"n, nl M,v111ca. and -'11tronomy
-'Mw,.ir Au,ldm
l nlumh1R M1 \ f,Ci: 11
'Ml• -  ._i,;i,.: ·rnc;
1 ma,1 umca,q,hvs11:K(W.mi1i11ouri.edu
V. et- "m: r,hvs1ci..m1ssouri.edu
I du,,.-,a Hoard
;_md., <,odwm
Pau M1cch
"""'""'Ult,•r,uhlt11h1-«I ""'"'""' ti, th,
n,'1"''1mMi' 111 f'h'""""' 11n,1 ,11tmnnm, 111 thr
1 "'''°""' 111 M11111n11n
Detl(lrtm{"n, nl M,v111ca. and -'11tronomy
-'Mw,.ir Au,ldm
l nlumh1R M1 \ f,Ci: 11
'Ml• -  ._i,;i,.: ·rnc;
1 ma,1 umca,q,hvs11:K(W.mi1i11ouri.edu
V. et- "m: r,hvs1ci..m1ssouri.edu
I du,,.-,a Hoard
;_md., <,odwm
Pau M1cch
,
1 f) I t'f( Iff \,,,1If''
22' Mtv(.K ( Rmkhne
C oh,mt,;11 \4( 1 "-<21 I
rnnf:H'frnnf:H'fl pdaft' ouri11forma.1iu11, fhroui:h lhl' \IL
rnnf:H'f
rnnf:H'f
\lu11111i .h!lodation lll'h lh': 11d1 ik:
Iii1p://n 1111 .111i11ou.ro111/.
\ 1111 do 11111 m·t·d fo ht• a IIIL'lllht•r lo 11pdi1k our
i11formafi1111.
of' Phof' PhIJo ,,,., ""''" a ,kpurfuu•nf al111111111\ 11ml 111111a111 lo
of' Ph
of' Ph
1111111i11:1U· for :1 Ot•parlmt•nf\k\ & .\,lrnnom 
l>i,1i111:ui,ht·d \111111111 ,\\\uni'! \'l,11thl, lll'h\ill' for
1111irl' inforn1:11i1111:
http,:l/php1ic,.111l\\011rl,t•1I11/al1111111 l-n1111-1:I,  I111:
( 'h1ick us out on F11cllbook: hllps://www.tilctibook.com/MUphysics
Department news: https://physics.missouri.edu/news
'
24
m  UCnohlmleitygoelMolafouArirts and Scienc=e ================